Subtitles by explosiveskull
(WATER SLOSHING)
(BIRD SCREECHES)
(ANIMALS HOOTING)
(GROWLING)
(DISTANT HOWLING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
- (GRUNTING)
- (INSECTS BUZZING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Go!
(HUNTERS YELLING)
(BISON BELLOWING)
(HUNTERS CONTINUE YELLING)
(BISON SNORTING)
(BISON ROARING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Hold the line!
(BISON SCREAMING)
(SNORTS. GROWLS)
- (HUNTERS YELLING)
- (GASPS)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Come here!
(SNORTING)
(GRUNTING)
Keda!
(KEDA GRUNTING)
(GROWLS)
(BISON GROWLING)
(ROARING)
(KEDA SCREAMING)
(SCREAMS)
(YELLS)
(BISON SCREAMS)
(THUNDER RUMBLES)
(BISON GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(STONES POUNDING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER
IN SOLUTREAN)
(GRUNTING)
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
(WHISTLES)
(TAU SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
You failed.
(GRUNTS)
Pass.
Fail.
Pain will journey with us.
(HUNTERS GRUNTING)
(SIGHS)
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
(HUNTERS CONTINUE GRUNTING)
Stop!
(GRUNTS)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SIGHS)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Stop. father. you stink!
(BOTH LAUGH)
You will hunt at my side.
You are the chief's son.
My son.
Prove you can lead.
Find your strength.
(WOMAN CHANTING IN SOLUTREAN)
(CHANTING CONTINUES)
- (CONTINUES CHANTING)
- (FIRE CRACKLES)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
He is not ready.
One season each year...
...we hunt the Great Beast.
We do this. or our tribe dies.
He must do his part.
Prove himself to the tribe.
What if he can't...
I love him
with my whole heart.
He could die.
I am afraid.
He leads with his heart.
Not his spear.
(SIGHS)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SOBBING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Take this...
so nothing will harm you.
I can take care of myself.
Keda.
(RHO SPEAKS)
Know that I love you.
(WIND HOWLING)
(TAU SPEAKS)
He will show us
that he is a man.
Earn his place to lead.
Then come home to you.
You can't promise that.
(SIGHS)
Go.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SOBBING SOFTLY)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(BLOWING AIR)
(FIRE CRACKLING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(GRUNTING)
(EXHALES)
(GRUNTS)
(GROANS)
(CHUCKLES)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
To survive we must focus...
Be patient.
We must not give up.
(HUNTERS CHUCKLE)
(BIRD CALLS)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(ANIMAL SCREECHES)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER
IN SOLUTREAN)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Father...
(PANTING SOFTLY)
(CHUCKLES)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
My friend.
(HUNTERS SPEAKING
IN SOLUTREAN)
You have survived the winter.
A little fatter maybe?
Yes.
And I bring a young hunter...
Raise your head...
and your eyes will follow.
This is my son.
Mine will not see
another hunt.
He has gone
to the ancestors.
You must be a proud father.
I hope he makes me proud.
- (BIRDS CHIRPING)
- (EXHALES)
(TAU SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Our tribe has walked
the Sacred Path
Path since
the first Great Hunt.
Marks guide our way.
Made by our ancestors.
Left as a trail
for us to follow.
And to help us survive
the great journey.
Our hands point us
to the hunting ground.
Some will return.
Some will not.
Those marks remain... for the
leader to bring the hunters home.
(CROWS CAWING)
- (INSECTS BUZZING)
- (HUNTERS SPEAKING SOLUTREAN)
(BOAR CHUFFING)
- (GRUNTS)
- (BOAR SCREECHES)
(BOAR SQUEALING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Finish it.
(SQUEALING CONTINUES)
(CONTINUES SQUEALING)
(GRUNTS)
You take a life
to give life to your tribe.
Do it. Now.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
I'm sorry!
- (GRUNTS)
- (SQUEALING STOPS)
Life is for the strong!
It is earned. not given.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER.
CHUCKLING)
(TWIG SNAPS)
(HUNTERS LAUGHING)
(RUSTLING)
(SHUSHING)
(TWIG SNAPS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(GROWLING)
(TWIGS SNAP)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Be calm.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Stay alert.
- (GROWLING)
- (HUNTERS SCREAMING)
- (KAPPA SCREAMING)
- (ANIMAL GROWLING)
- (ANIMAL CHUFFS)
- (FANGS SLASHING FLESH)
(SCREAMING STOPS)
(ANIMAL BELLOWS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(PANTING)
He is gone...
...but we must stay strong.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(TAU SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
May his spirit
watch over the Path...
...as his ancestors
before him.
(INSECTS BUZZING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
- (BIRDS CHIRPING)
- (TWIG SNAPS)
(HUNTERS GRUNTING)
(ANIMALS HOWLING.
CHITTERING IN DISTANCE)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
(ANIMAL ROARING)
(SHUSHING)
(BIRD SCREECHING IN DISTANCE)
(BIRD SCREECHING)
(BIRD SCREECHES)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(TAU SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
The stone markers
guide you during the day.
Now you bear the marks...
...that will guide you
at night.
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
The light
from our ancestors...
...showing us the way home.
(EXHALES)
Home.
(WOLF HOWLING)
You see that one?
That is the Alpha.
their leader.
The Alpha must care for his pack.
Above all else.
But he is also
always in danger.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER
AND LAUGHTER)
Others in the pack
will challenge him...
(WOLVES CONTINUE HOWLING)
...if they sense weakness.
The Alpha lets the others
know his place...
...with his strength and calm.
He was not born the Alpha.
But he earned it with his courage...
and his heart.
(INSECTS TRILLING. BUZZING)
Shh.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SNIFFING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(GRUNTING SOFTLY)
(HUNTERS PANTING)
(PANTING)
- (BISON SNORTING)
- (INSECT BUZZING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Go!
(BISON ROAR)
(HUNTERS YELL)
(GASPS)
(CHUFFING)
(GROWLING)
(YELLS)
(HUNTERS YELLING)
TAU: Keda!
(HUNTERS CLAMORING)
Keda!
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(TAU SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Do not look down!
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
(BREATHING RAPIDLY)
Don't let go!
(INAUDIBLE)
(KEDA SCREAMING)
(GRUNTS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
TAU: (ECHOING) Keda!
(GRUNTING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
My friend...
(BREATHING RAPIDLY)
...my leader...
It is impossible
to reach him!
He is gone.
We can't lose you. too.
We have a duty
to our people.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(THUNDER RUMBLES)
TAU: Keda!
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Load the sleds.
We must return
to our village.
May the Spirits guide
and protect your people.
(TAU SCREAMING)
Tell him our sons shall walk
together in the other world.
(TAU SHOUTING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
You must let him go.
Set him free.
(BIRDS SCREECHING)
(EXHALES)
(SOBBING QUIETLY)
(SOBBING)
(SNIFFLING)
(SIGMA GRUNTS)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
He is
with the Spirits now.
(SIGHS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(CONTINUES SOBBING)
(WIND WHISTLING)
(BIRDS SCREECHING)
(SQUAWKING)
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
(GROANING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Father!
(WHIMPERING)
(GROANING LOUDLY)
(BIRDS SCREECHING IN DISTANCE)
(GRUNTING)
(SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
(SHOUTS IN SOLUTREAN)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(GRUNTING)
(WHIMPERING)
(GRUNTS)
(GRUNTING)
(SCREAMING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(GRUNTING)
(INSECTS BUZZING)
(GROANS)
(PANTING)
Father!
(GROANING LOUDLY)
(GASPS)
(BIRD SCREECHES)
(GROANS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(GRUNTS)
- (BONES CRACK)
- (SCREAMS)
(GRUNTS)
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTING SOFTLY)
(WIND HOWLING)
(GROANS)
Father!
(WIND WHISTLING)
(GRUNTING)
(YELLING)
(SOBBING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(WOLF HOWLING)
(HOWLING CONTINUES)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
(GRUNTS)
(HOWLING CONTINUES)
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
(KEDA SHIVERING)
- (WOLF HOWLING)
- (GASPS)
(HOWLING CONTINUES)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(INSECT BUZZING)
(BUZZING STOPS)
(GROWLING)
(GRUNTING)
(WOLVES GROWLING)
(KEDA SCREAMING)
(WOLVES SNARLING)
- (KEDA GRUNTS)
- (WOLF WHIMPERS)
- (KEDA GRUNTING)
- (WOLVES GROWLING)
(WOLF WHINING)
(WOLVES SNARLING)
(WHINING)
(WOLVES HOWLING)
(WHINING CONTINUES)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(INSECTS TRILLING)
(WOLF WHINING)
(SIGHS)
(WHINING CONTINUES)
(GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
(WOLF WHIMPERS)
(WHIMPERING)
(WHINING)
(SIGHS)
(WOLF WHEEZING)
(WOLF WHIMPERING)
(SIGHS)
(BIRDS SCREECHING)
(WOLF WHEEZING)
- (GROWLS)
- (GASPS)
(WHEEZING)
(GROWLING)
(GRUNTING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(WOLF GROWLS SOFTLY)
(HYENAS YIPPING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Hyenas. we must find shelter.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(WOLF GROANING)
(GRUNTS)
(SIGHS)
(GRUNTING)
(STRAINS. GRUNTS)
(STICK CLATTERING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(GRUNTS)
(WIND WHISTLING IN CAVE)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(ANIMALS HOWLING IN DISTANCE)
(GRUNTS)
(GROWLING)
(GROWLS)
(WOLF WHINING)
(WOLF WHINES)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
- (GROWLS SOFTLY)
- (EXHALES)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
A friend.
(GROWLS)
(GROWLING)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
- (WOLF SNAPS)
- (GRUNTS)
Maybe not.
(GRUNTS)
(LOW GROWL)
Do not bite me.
I am not going to hurt you.
I will keep you alive.
Friend.
See.
(WOLF SNIFFING)
(GRUNTS)
(GRUNTING)
(CHUCKLES)
(WIND HOWLING)
(GROWLING)
It has to be cleaned.
(KEDA EXHALES)
(SNIFFING)
See...
...not that bad.
(RUSTLING)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
(LOW GROWL)
- (YELLS)
- (WOLF YELPS)
- (GROWLS)
- (GRUNTS)
Patience.
(BLOWING AIR)
(CHUCKLES)
(WHINING)
I have not forgiven you.
It is up to me.
You have to wait
for your turn.
(LOW GROWL)
I am glad
we understand each other.
(CHUCKLES)
(ANIMALS HOOTING)
(KEDA GRUNTING)
(WOLF WHINING)
(GROWLING)
(DISTANT HOWLING)
(WOLF WHINES)
(HOWLING)
(DISTANT HOWLING)
(HOWLING CONTINUES)
Home.
You miss them. your pack...
I hear my parents
calling me in my dreams.
(SOBBING)
But I can't get to them...
(EXHALES)
(CONTINUES SOBBING)
It's getting colder.
The Sacred Path will cover
with snow soon...
I don't know if I can make it
home without my father.
I'm not like him...
...but I have to try.
(BREATHING DEEPLY)
I miss my parents so much.
(SIGHS)
(GRUNTS)
That belongs to me.
I need that.
(WOLF GROWLING)
(KEDA GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
(WHINING)
(CONTINUES WHINING)
I have to be home
before the first snow.
You should go home too.
Psst.
Go ahead!
Stop looking at me!
(WHINING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(PANTING)
(WOLVES HOWLING IN DISTANCE)
(KEDA SHIVERING)
(ANIMAL HOOTS)
(EXHALING)
(ANIMALS CHUFFING)
Where are you going?
What do you want?
Go home!
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
(BIRD SQUAWKING)
Go on. get out of here!
(INSECTS TRILLING)
(BIRD SQUAWKING)
(KEDA PANTING)
(BOAR CHUFFING)
(BOARS GROWL)
(BOAR SQUEALING)
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
I almost had him.
Did you see that?
(PANTING)
I just slipped.
I'm not afraid of anything.
Hey. what are you doing?
Come back here!
Here!
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
(RUMBLING)
(INSECTS TRILLING)
(WHISTLING)
(SIGHS)
(INSECTS TRILLING)
(WHISTLING)
- (WHISTLING)
- (BARKING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Over here!
(KEDA GRUNTS)
(WHISTLING)
Wait!
(GROWLING)
No!
(WHINING)
You know I'll feed you.
(ANIMAL HOOTING)
(WOLF GRUNTS SOFTLY)
(CHUFFS)
(INSECTS TRILLING)
(BIRDS TRILLING)
(CHUFFS)
(INSECT CHIRPING)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(CHUFFS SOFTLY)
You stink.
(WHINES)
(WOLF WHINES)
Get in the water!
Don't make me chase you.
(CHUCKLES)
(WHISTLES)
Come here.
come here.
(WOLF YELPS)
(LAUGHING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Ah. Ah.
(LAUGHING)
(INSECTS TRILLING)
I will call you Alpha.
Keda.
Alpha.
(WIND WHISTLING)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
(WHISTLING)
- (BOAR SQUEALING)
- (ALPHA GROWLS)
(PANTING)
- (BOAR SQUEALS)
- (ALPHA GROWLS)
(CONTINUES PANTING)
- (BOAR SQUEALS)
(BIRD HOOTING)
(GROWLING SOFTLY)
(CONTINUES GROWLING)
(GROWLING)
(WHINING)
(WOLF GROWLS)
(WOLF CHUFFS)
(ALPHA WHINES)
(WHINING)
Go to your family...
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(WIND GUSTING)
(KEDA WHISTLING)
(CONTINUES WHISTLING)
(FIRE CRACKLING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(SOBBING)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
I'm sorry...
(SCREAMS)
(GASPING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
(WIND GUSTING)
(PANTING)
(WOLF GROWLING)
Please...
(WOLVES GROWLING)
- (SNARLS)
- (YELPS. WHINES)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
Alpha!
- (PANTING)
- (ICE CRACKS)
- (ICE CRACKING)
- (KEDA SCREAMS)
(MUFFLED SCREAM)
(ALPHA WHINES)
(WHINES)
(GRUNTS)
(KEDA GASPING)
(COUGHING)
(SHIVERING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(ALPHA WHINES)
(BLOWING AIR)
(SHIVERING)
(COUGHING)
(SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY)
(CHUCKLES)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Help!
(PANTING)
Friend!
(EXHALES)
(ALPHA GROWLING)
(ALPHA PANTS)
No...
(SNIFFING)
(GRUNTS)
Stay.
Food... Food.
(GRUNTING)
Nothing!
No!
(SCREAMS)
(COUGHING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(WHINES)
We will be all right.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(ICE CRACKS)
Thank you for helping us...
(WIND GUSTING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(HYENAS YELPING)
(ALPHA WHINES)
(HYENAS YIPPING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Run!
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(HYENAS YIPPING)
(PANTING)
(CONTINUES PANTING)
(YIPPING. SNARLING)
(KEDA GRUNTING)
(KEDA PANTING)
(LOW GROWL)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(WIND GUSTING)
(GROWLING)
(HYENAS YIPPING)
(PANTING)
(SIGHS)
(GROWLING)
(EXHALES)
(ALPHA GROWLING)
(LOW GROWLING)
- (ROARING)
- (ALPHA BARKING)
(KEDA GRUNTS)
- (ANIMAL GROWLS)
- (ALPHA WHINES)
(KEDA BREATHING HEAVILY)
- (ANIMAL WHINES)
- (PANTING)
Alpha!
(BREATHING RAPIDLY)
(WHINING)
(PANTING)
(WHINES)
Thank you. my friend.
I will not give up on you...
You are my tribe.
(ALPHA WHIMPERING)
(EXHALING)
(CONTINUES WHIMPERING)
(COUGHING. RETCHING)
(BREATHING SHALLOWLY)
(WIND BLOWING)
(KEDA COUGHING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
The Path. We're close.
(COUGHING)
(PANTING)
(SIGHS)
(GASPS)
My ancestors
are lighting the way...
...guiding us home.
(LAUGHS SOFTLY)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(KEDA GRUNTING)
Please. Get up.
I know you can do it.
We have come
so far together...
I can't lose you.
Please. Alpha.
(GRUNTS)
(WIND HOWLING)
(KEDA GRUNTING)
(BREATHING SHALLOWLY)
I just need a little rest...
(SHIVERING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(RHO SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
He could die. I am afraid.
He leads with his heart.
Not his spear.
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
No.
He is stronger
than you know.
than even he knows.
(GASPS)
(PANTING)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(PANTING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(SPEAKS IN SOLUTREAN)
We're home.
(GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
How can this be?
(LAUGHS SOFTLY)
Father.
(LAUGHING)
Keda!
I was afraid
I'd never see you again.
You are here. With us.
You are really home.
(SOBBING)
I wanted to make you proud.
You earned it. my son.
You came home to us.
(KISSES)
(SIGHS)
Alpha.
Alpha needs...
Help.
(BREATHING SHALLOWLY)
(VOICES WHISPERING)
(ALPHA WHINING)
(BREATHING SHALLOWLY)
(WHIMPERING)
(CONTINUES WHIMPERING)
(SPEAKING IN SOLUTREAN)
Keda has brought you home
to us. You are family.
(PUP WHIMPERS)
- (GASPS)
- (LOW INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(PUP WHIMPERING)
(CHUCKLES)
We welcome you
into our tribe.
(PUPS WHIMPERING)
(GRUNTING SOFTLY)
It's okay now.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(PUPS GROWLING AND YIPPING)
(WHINING)
(CHUCKLES)
(WOLVES HOWLING IN DISTANCE)
(HOWLING)
(INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
Subtitles by explosiveskull
(WOMAN VOCALIZING)